Successful Management of Infective Endocarditis Complicated by Pheochromocytoma: A Case Report.

Pheochromocytomas present with paroxysmal hypertension due to a sudden release of catecholamines stimulated by radiological contrast media, surgery, or anesthetic agents. This often complicates the maintenance of patient hemodynamics during surgery. A 55-year-old man with a high fever was admitted to a hospital. Laboratory blood tests revealed elevated white blood cell and C-reactive protein levels. Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography revealed moderate aortic regurgitation, along with aortic valve vegetation. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple cerebral embolisms, whereas computed tomography showed a left adrenal incidentaloma. Further examinations showed high levels of plasma-free metanephrine, adrenaline, and noradrenaline in the blood and metanephrines in the urine. 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy revealed ligand accumulation in the tumor at 6 and 24 h after injection. Based on these results, the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma was confirmed. Doxazosin was promptly administered, and its dosage was escalated. Despite ongoing antimicrobial therapy, transesophageal echocardiography did not reveal any reduction in the size of the vegetation. Hence, the patient underwent surgical treatment. A laparoscopic left adrenalectomy was initially performed. The patient's blood pressure increased with insufflation and manipulation around the tumor but dropped immediately after the adrenal tumor was resected. Following the adrenalectomy, a cardiopulmonary bypass was established. The bicuspid aortic valve leaflets along with the vegetation were completely resected. Subsequently, a mechanical aortic valve was implanted. Inotropic agents were completely weaned off within two days after surgery. A pathological examination confirmed the adrenal incidentaloma to be pheochromocytoma. One-stage surgery with adrenalectomy before cardiac surgery using cardiopulmonary bypass may be an effective strategy for patients with pheochromocytomas diagnosed with infective endocarditis. In addition, it can reduce the risk of complications with pheochromocytoma by managing the patient's systemic condition as much as possible before cardiac surgery.